[general]
name=WeavingSpace
qgisMinimumVersion=4.0
qgisMaximumVersion=4.99
supportsQt6=True
description=Tiled and woven maps that carry several variables at once, built on the weavingspace library
about=Creates tiled and woven map layers that carry several attributes
    of a polygon dataset in a single map, using the weavingspace library
    by David O'Sullivan and Luke Bergmann (bundled, MIT licensed).
    Choose a tiling or weave design, assign a variable and colour ramp
    to each pattern element, and the plugin adds a group of ordinary
    QGIS layers seeded with standard renderers, ready for the usual
    styling tools. The method is described in O'Sullivan and Bergmann
    (2026), Cartographic Perspectives 108. This is an experimental
    prototype, mostly co-written by Luke Bergmann with large language
    models. Requires QGIS 4 or later. It needs geopandas, pandas, and
    shapely, which most QGIS 4 installations already include; where
    they are missing or too old (most often on Linux, where QGIS uses
    the system Python), the plugin shows exactly what it would fetch
    and asks first; approving downloads those wheels from PyPI into
    the plugin's own folder, changing nothing else in your QGIS
    installation, and declining simply closes the plugin. Released
    under the MIT licence; the bundled weavingspace library is MIT
    too, and both notices are in LICENSE.md.
version=0.24.3
license=MIT
author=Luke Bergmann
email=luke.bergmann@gmail.com
tracker=https://github.com/FoldingSpace/weavingspaceQGIS/issues
repository=https://github.com/FoldingSpace/weavingspaceQGIS
homepage=https://foldingspace.github.io/weavingspaceQGIS/
tags=cartography,choropleth,multivariate,tiling,weaving,symbology
category=Vector
icon=icon.png
experimental=True
hasProcessingProvider=no
server=False

; Shown in the QGIS plugin manager. Keep the newest version first, and
; describe what a USER would notice rather than what changed in the code.
;
; EVERY VERSION OPENS WITH ONE SENTENCE saying what the release is
; FOR, and the detail that follows is GROUPED by category. Somebody deciding whether to upgrade
; can stop after the first sentence; somebody who has upgraded and
; wants to know what moved reads on. One text serving both is how a
; changelog becomes a list nobody finishes.
; (Maintainer's instruction, 2026-08-13.)
changelog=0.24.3 Areas with no value are drawn now rather than left
    as gaps in the map. A colour can also mean the same thing
    everywhere it appears, and you can set the class bounds yourself
    where the automatic ones do not suit.
    Missing values: an area whose value is absent used to come out as
    a hole in the map. So did one holding an infinity, which a
    classifier can no more place than a blank. Those areas are drawn
    now, and told apart: no data, infinity, and negative infinity
    each get their own colour and their own line in the legend,
    and each sits in that element's colour editor to be changed. QGIS
    gains a second layer beside the element carrying those areas,
    while the dialog still shows one element.
    Class bounds: the box holding the first or last class's inner
    bound is live whenever that element can carry a pin. Move it off
    the value the classification worked out and the bound is yours,
    with the classes between recomputed around it; move it back and
    the break returns to being worked out for you. Classes whose
    breaks are always computed are hatched in the pin column. Bounds
    that cannot be drawn are refused and the reason said, rather than
    quietly turned into different numbers.
    Copying: send one element's classes, colours, pins and class count
    to another from the same window. Where the two carry different
    columns the ends are fitted to the receiving data, and any class
    its values cannot reach is kept rather than dropped, so the
    classification arrives whole. A pin the receiving column cannot
    reach is left behind rather than carried, and said.
    Colour: an element is now classed from the whole map's values
    rather than from its own tiles alone, so two elements you have set
    up alike can be read against each other. They could not before:
    the same shade stood for different numbers in different parts of
    the pattern.
    Classes: a column with fewer values than the classes you asked
    for keeps every class you asked for, and each keeps the colour of
    its place on the ramp, so adding data later does not repaint the
    classes you already had. The classes left empty are counted in a
    notice. An element set to Unclassed says nothing
    about this, its fifty steps never having been a count you chose.
    Design: the scale factors take negative values, which mirror the
    design about that axis and scale it by the size of the number.
    The up and down controls step through zero rather than stopping
    there.
    Icons: you are told when an element has no icon for some of your
    areas, and which elements those are. Nothing was said before,
    because the other elements still drew those areas.
    Speed: the optional warning about colours a reader may not be
    able to separate used to hold QGIS still for half a minute on a
    map of many classes. It answers in under two seconds.
    Reopening a project: an element whose ramp you reversed comes
    back reversed, naming the ramp you chose rather than reading as
    custom colours. A class you recoloured in QGIS's Layer Styling
    panel comes back too, where the next Generate used to paint over
    it.
    Your files: asking for a result in a new group no longer rewrites
    the output .gpkg from the beginning, which had been losing the
    tables your earlier runs wrote into it.
    Reloading the plugin: reloading it and then restyling one of its
    layers in QGIS could bring QGIS down. It cannot now.
    Another project: opening one no longer carries the last project's
    per-element colours, class counts and bounds into it. Element
    names repeat between projects, so those settings could land on
    data they were never chosen for. The plugin takes over that
    project's own group of layers, so the next Generate rebuilds it
    where it stands rather than adding a second one beside it.
    Opening the plugin first: you can open the dialog before you load
    your data. The variables appear as soon as the layer does. Until
    now that order left the Variable list empty and Generate saying
    you had not assigned anything.
    Styling in QGIS: restyle an element in the Layer Styling panel
    and the plugin's table now follows it. Retype the class breaks,
    or copy a style from one element layer and paste it onto
    another, and the row comes to read the variable, the style, the
    number of classes and the ramp that QGIS is holding. Until now
    the row went on describing the map the plugin had last drawn,
    and the next Generate replaced your work with it. Where the
    renderer is something the dialog cannot describe at all, the
    Style reads "Deferring to QGIS" instead of naming a style that
    no longer decides the map: the renderer survives Generate, the
    swatch shows the colours QGIS is actually drawing, and the
    controls that would overwrite it are greyed until you take the
    element back by choosing a style again. A single colour you
    mixed there is left exactly as you set it, as before.
    Losing the region layer: removing it from a project that holds
    several other layers is now noticed. Before, the dialog went on
    pointing at a layer that had gone, said nothing, and Generate
    did nothing at all.
    Numbers you type: several boxes changed what you typed as you
    typed it. A class bound wider than the element's own data was cut
    down to fit, so typing 1200 gave you 120 and the map was drawn
    from that, and a fine bound on a column of large numbers was
    rounded away. Rotate, Skew and the two angle boxes took no
    decimals at all, so 22.5 degrees became 22. A scale between minus
    one and one was reduced as you typed, so -0.5 quietly un-mirrored
    a design at a size that looked right. The two boxes of the Ramp
    Display Range each clamped the other, so from a window of 0 to
    40, typing 60 kept the 6. Each of those boxes now keeps what you
    type.
    In another language: on a computer that writes decimals with a
    comma, three of the plugin's own sentences printed numbers its
    own boxes then read differently. Following the spacing it advised
    drew a map ten times coarser; copying a class bound it printed
    pinned a number a thousand times out, and that number was
    accepted and saved. Those sentences now punctuate a number the
    way your computer punctuates it.
    Work you have set: a style pasted onto an element while a map is
    still drawing is no longer destroyed as that map lands, and
    neither is a classification the instant you copy it. Restyle an
    element in QGIS and its pinned bounds, its hand-picked colours,
    its opacity and its missing-value layer's own styling now stay
    with it; they used to leave the saved project while the window
    went on showing them. A class count too small to carry the bounds
    you pinned is refused, with the reason, rather than destroying
    them. Where such a count comes back from a reopened project it is
    raised to fit and you are told.
    What a colleague opens: a class break retyped in QGIS, a ramp
    changed there, a stroke, a legend label or a deleted category now
    reach the exported GeoPackage as you make the edit. They reached
    the map, the project and QGIS itself before, and stopped at the
    file, where Generate could not heal them. It was hard to notice,
    because the map was right.
    The design view: the swatches in the data table are drawn from
    the colours the map is drawing. They used to be drawn from the
    ramp the row named, so an element restyled in QGIS, one whose
    colours you picked by hand, one with its display range narrowed
    and one with Reverse ticked were all previewed in colours the map
    did not hold. The table is where you judge whether your elements
    read as distinct from one another, and that judgement was being
    made from the wrong picture.
    Being told: a class no tile falls into is reported in words, and
    counted on the ladder actually drawn. An element set to Unclassed
    is no longer told that its fifty steps are empty. Drawing without
    classes is what that style is for. Where two elements each carry
    a column, both are now told about their own legend rather than
    the first silencing the second, and a column holding a single
    value says so whenever you change the class count, not only on
    the first Generate.
    0.24.2 Bugfixes, one of them about not losing data.
    Your files: an existing .gpkg chosen as the output was rewritten
    whole, so every other table in it was lost, including the layer
    you were tiling if it lived there. Only the tables this plugin
    wrote are replaced now. Nothing else is touched. True since
    0.23.0, so upgrade before generating into a file you keep other
    work in.
    Colour: a ramp the dropdown offers is now the ramp you get, and a
    colour picked by hand survives a run landing, a lost column and a
    reopened project. What the plugin says it discarded stays
    discarded. Categorized layers record their ramp, so QGIS's own
    panel shows it and Classify starts from the right place.
    Class colour files: edit a .qml and Generate draws what it says
    today. Move one and the element keeps its colours, with the
    missing file named.
    Reopening a project: an element's ramp and class count come back
    from the layer rather than from a default. Reverse does not yet.
    Alongside QGIS: Classify no longer fails on a one-value column, a
    closed dialog no longer writes layers into your project, and an
    emptied region layer is reported rather than quietly stopping the
    plugin.
    Live update: a run that cannot finish says so on the note line
    instead of interrupting you with a message box.
    Correction: that live-update change reached you in 0.24.1, whose
    notes wrongly said nothing else had changed.
    0.24.1 Setting the plugin up is more forgiving where QGIS does not
    already carry the packages it needs, which mostly means Linux.
    Setup: when one of them cannot be downloaded the plugin says which
    package and what went wrong, rather than only that something is
    missing. It tries again once when the network was at fault, and it
    has a second version to fall back on.
    0.24.0 The map follows the layer, and data that does not suit a
    style is drawn sensibly rather than drawn wrongly.
    Following the layer: editing, deleting or reprojecting features in
    QGIS updates the map rather than leaving it out of date, and a
    column added there can be mapped straight away.
    Awkward data: areas with no value are left out of the class breaks
    and counted in a notice; a column with one value draws as one
    class; choosing a quantitative style for a column of text draws
    categories rather than nothing.
    Colour: an Edit colours button sets a colour per value for
    categorical elements.
    Warnings: you are told when a spacing leaves areas off the map,
    when a changed category count moves existing colours, and when two
    elements' colours are hard to tell apart.
    Preview: it shows one ring of neighbouring tiles by default, and
    colour-ramp swatches are larger.
    0.23.0 Per-element control over colour, two new pattern families,
    and a public home for the project.
    Data table: reverse-ramp switches and per-element opacity.
    Patterns: grid and stripe families, with their own row and column
    controls.
    Project: published as a public repository with a project page.
